This is Vicki MacDonald speaking from Holy Trinity Church, Flandersnow, during
the longest yarn and I'm with Linda Wainwright who's going to tell us about
her family during the war. Sorry about the noise, thank you Linda, let's go.
Anything you want to tell me?
My parents, my grandparents, were actually killed during the war.
They lived in Ancoats in Manchester and a bomb, a stray bomb, was dropped and went into the garden
of their house and under the floor of the house and exploded. My grandmother and grandfather who were
Harriet and Edward Walton were killed outright. My aunt who was Miriam Walton and was about 18,
had the fire, she was sat by the fire, the fire blew out onto her and badly burned her from the
waist down. She survived two weeks in hospital. My dad, Edward Walton, he was mending his bike
and the bike fell on top of him and stopped the rubble from crushing him. He spent a good six
weeks in hospital and ever afterwards his toes were all crunched up because they'd obviously been
affected by the rubble falling on him. He also, he then went to live with his grandmother,
his grandmother, so my great-grandma, who was Miriam Smith. She had been staying with the family
for a while but decided to move on because she felt it wasn't safe. How she managed that I don't
know. I did know Miriam, she was a very old lady when I knew her and she died when I was about six.
My father also then later on, he was a messenger for the fire service, for the firefighters at night,
so he rode his bike around Manchester delivering messages and things like that and he also worked
on the Lancaster bombers for Afros Hawker Sidley and he told us a story one day about
going up to Woodford aerodrome in Woodford, Cheshire and he was, they had to clean out the
remains of whatever was in the aircraft that had been attacked and had been brought back,
which was a horrible job for somebody of his age. He must have had really quite a traumatic time
during the war. He did. With both his parents being killed, his aunt being injured, he being injured
and then the job of clearing the bombers after they came back. Did he, at the end of the war,
did he talk about it to you? How do you know about it? No, he didn't. I then later on went to speak to
his uncle, who we called Uncle Fred because we lived with them for a while, and he said,
don't mention this to your dad. So, and every time he watched the Royal Festival Halls of
Remembrance service, he would always get up and leave the room at some point. He was upset,
he was emotional about it. But this, when I said to my mum, I've been told not to talk to dad about
it, she said, oh, it's all right, you won't mind. So that was how we came to get these stories about
Avros. He was also very angry about the Avros because they kept on apprentices and then once
they'd finished their apprenticeship, they sacked them and took on new apprentices, money-wise,
financial scheme for them. So he wasn't very pleased with them at all. So you were brought
up in a household where he was trying very hard, wasn't he, too, perhaps? Oh, yes, he was. Yes.
Yeah. And it only appeared after he died that he actually couldn't read properly. So all that stuff
affected him really badly. If he needed to write anything, my mum had
write it for him and then he copied it out. He had lovely handwriting,
but he never read books. He was always... Such a complex life he must have led. Yes, very.
Thank you so much for sharing that with me. It's a lovely, sad story.
Thank you and I hope you enjoy the exhibition.